>> Ifill: THOUSANDS OF MOURNERS
GATHERED IN MISSOURI FOR THE
FUNERAL OF MICHAEL BROWN.
WE LOOK FOR LESSONS LEARNED FROM
THE FATAL POLICE SHOOTING OF THE
UNARMED TEEN IN FERGUSON.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL,
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, WE WEIGH
THE THREAT TO THE WEST BY THE
RADICAL ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, AND
DEBATE WHAT ACTIONS THE U.S.
SHOULD TAKE.
PLUS, RETHINKING COLLEGE, HARI
SREENIVASAN BEGINS A WEEK-LONG
LOOK AT FRESH IDEAS DESIGNED TO
IMPROVE THE VALUE OF HIGHER
EDUCATION.
TONIGHT, AWARDING DEGREES BASED
ON COMPETENCY RATHER THAN CREDIT
HOURS.
>> THE CREDIT HOUR IS REALLY
ONLY GOOD AT ONE THING, OR AT
WHICH IS TELLING PEOPLE HOW LONG
YOU SAT, HOW LONG WERE YOU IN
CLASS.
IT'S NOT VERY GOOD AT TELLING
PEOPLE WHAT YOU'VE ACTUALLY
LEARNED.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: AT LEAST 58 PEOPLE
DIED IN A WAVE OF ATTACKS ACROSS
IRAQ TODAY.
MOST OF THE VIOLENCE TARGETED
SHIITE DISTRICTS.
SCORES OF PEOPLE WERE WOUNDED.
THE DEADLIEST BLAST HAPPENED AT
THIS MOSQUE IN BAGHDAD.
A SUICIDE BOMBER DETONATED A
VEST PACKED WITH EXPLOSIVES AS
WORSHIPPERS WERE LEAVING AFTER
MIDDAY PRAYERS.
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS SAY THE
U.S. PAID NO RANSOM TO WIN THE
RELEASE OF AN AMERICAN FREELANCE
REPORTER ON SUNDAY.
PETER THEO CURTIS WAS FREED
AFTER BEING HELD FOR TWO YEARS
BY THE "AL-NUSRA FRONT" IN
SYRIA.
THE GROUP IS AFFILIATED WITH AL-
QAEDA.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST SAYS THE GOVERNMENT OF
QATAR NEGOTIATED THE RELEASE.
>> THEY TOLD MR. CURTIS' FAMILY
THAT THEY DID NOT PAY A RANSOM.
THE UNITED STATES MADE CLEAR AND
IT IS CLEAR TO THE QATARI
GOVERNMENT THAT WE DID NOT WANT
THEM TO PAY A RANSOM.
IN FACT, WE ENCOURAGED THEM NOT
TO PAY A RANSOM.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER AMERICAN
JOURNALIST, JAMES FOLEY, WAS
BEHEADED LAST WEEK BY THE
"ISLAMIC STATE" GROUP.
EGYPT PRESSED NEW EFFORTS TODAY
TO BROKER ANOTHER TRUCE BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND "HAMAS," BUT THERE
WAS NO BREAK IN THE FIGHTING.
ISRAELI AIR STRIKES BLASTED
TARGETS IN GAZA, KILLING AT
LEAST NINE PALESTINIANS, AND
"HAMAS" MILITANTS FIRED MORE
THAN 130 ROCKETS INTO SOUTHERN
ISRAEL.
ONE PERSON WAS INJURED BY A
MORTAR BOMB.
>> Ifill: THERE'S WORD THAT
EGYPT AND THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES HAVE INTERVENED IN
LIBYA, WITH AIR STRIKES ON
ISLAMIST MILITIAS.
SENIOR AMERICAN OFFICIALS TOLD
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" TODAY THAT
IT'S HAPPENED TWICE IN THE LAST
SEVEN DAYS, AROUND TRIPOLI.
FIGHTING ERUPTED IN JUNE AFTER
ISLAMISTS LOST CONTROL OF
PARLIAMENT.
TODAY, THE OLD PARLIAMENT
RECONVENED AND VOTED TO DISBAND
THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT.
IN UKRAINE, THE GOVERNMENT
ACCUSED RUSSIA OF SENDING A
DOZEN TANKS AND ARMORED VEHICLES
ACROSS ITS SOUTHEASTERN BORDER.
OFFICIALS SAID THEY ENTERED THE
COUNTRY UNDER REBEL FLAGS,
BUT WERE INTERCEPTED BY BORDER
GUARDS.
IN MOSCOW, THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER DISMISSED THOSE CLAIMS.
>> ( translated ): I HAVEN'T
HEARD ABOUT THEM, BUT THERE IS
MORE THAN ENOUGH MISINFORMATION
AROUND ABOUT OUR INVASIONS.
THERE WERE REPORTS SEVERAL DAYS
AGO THAT THE UKRAINIAN ARMY
DESTROYED A MILITARY CONVOY FROM
RUSSIA, AND THAT THOSE VEHICLES
CONTAINED DOCUMENTS ABOUT LEAVES
OF ABSENCE.
EVEN IF WE COULD IMAGINE THIS AS
RESEMBLING TRUTH TO SOME EXTENT,
WHO WOULD CARRY A LIBRARY ON
MISSIONS LIKE THAT?
>> Ifill: IN ANOTHER
DEVELOPMENT, UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT
DISSOLVED PARLIAMENT AND CALLED
FOR EARLY ELECTIONS IN OCTOBER.
TRIBUTES POURED IN TODAY FOR
RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH, THE OSCAR-
WINNING BRITISH ACTOR AND
DIRECTOR WHO DIED SUNDAY.
HIS CAREER SPANNED MORE THAN 70
FILMS.
SEJAL KARIAL OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS LOOKS BACK ON
HIS LIFE AND WORK.
>> Reporter: FOR MORE THAN SIXTY
YEARS, RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH WAS
SIMPLY A TOWERING PRESENCE IN
CINEMA, WHETHER IN FRONT OF THE
CAMERA OR BEHIND IT.
HE WON HIS FIRST LEADING ROLE,
AGED JUST 24, AS A SADISTIC
GANGSTER IN "BRIGHTON ROCK."
EVENTUALLY HOLLYWOOD CAME
CALLING.
AND HE STARRED OPPOSITE STEVE
MCQUEEN IN ONE OF THE MOST
CELEBRATED WAR FILMS EVER MADE,
"THE GREAT ESCAPE."
BUT RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH BECAME
AS REVERED FOR HIS OFF-SCREEN
TALENT AS HIS ON-SCREEN
MAGNETISM.
HE DIRECTED "GHANDI," STARRING
BEN KINGLSEY, A FILM WHICH CAME
TO DEFINE HIS CAREER.
IT WON EIGHT OSCARS, INCLUDING
FOR BEST DIRECTOR.
IN 1993, HE BECAME A LIFE PEER.
IT IS RARE TO FIND SUCH
SUCCESSFUL AND CELEBRATED
SIBLINGS AS LORD ATTENBROUGH AND
HIS BROTHER, THE NATURALIST, SIR
DAVID.
BUT SIR RICHARD'S TALENT AND HIS
PASSION FOR FILM-MAKING HAVE
MADE HIM ONE OF CINEMA'S GREATS.
TO WORK IN THE MOVIES, TO
EXPRESS MY VIEWS AND MY
HOPES AND MY ASPIRATIONS, IS
HEAVEN ON EARTH FOR ME.
AND I WOULD WANT TO BEGUN
AND ON UNTIL I JUST WENT OFF
AND DISAPPEARED.
>> Ifill: RICHARD ATTENBOROUGH
WAS 90 YEARS OLD.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
75 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR 17,077.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ALMOST 19 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 4,557.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED NINE
POINTS TO FINISH JUST SHORT OF
1,998.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE POLICE
KILLING OF MICHAEL BROWN;
NAPA, CALIFORNIA ASSESSES THE
DAMAGE AFTER A 6.0 MAGNITUDE
EARTHQUAKE;
WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS IF THE U.S.
DECIDES TO TAKE ON THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP?
AWARDING COLLEGE DEGREES FOR
COMPETENCY RATHER THAN CREDIT
HOURS;
AND AN IMMIGRATION LAWYER'S TAKE
ON THE BORDER CRISIS.
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN A LITTLE
OVER TWO WEEKS SINCE MICHAEL
BROWN WAS KILLED IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI.
SINCE THEN, THE AREA HAS SEEN
DAILY PROTESTS, BOTH PEACEFUL
AND VIOLENT.
TODAY THE TEENAGER WAS LAID TO
REST.
>> Ifill: THE LINE STRETCHED
WELL INTO THE STREET OUTSIDE
FRIENDLY TEMPLE MISSIONARY
BAPTIST CHURCH IN ST. LOUIS,
WHERE THOUSANDS TURNED OUT FOR
THE FUNERAL OF 18-YEAR-OLD
MICHAEL BROWN JUNIOR.
MIXED IN THE CROWD WERE WELL-
KNOWN FACES, FROM THE REVEREND
JESSE JACKSON TO FILMMAKER SPIKE
LEE, TO THE PARENTS OF TRAYVON
MARTIN, WHOSE OWN TEENAGE SON
AGO.KILLED IN FLORIDA TWO YEARS
LARGE PHOTOGRAPHS OF MICHAEL
BROWN FLANKING THE CLOSED CASKET
BEFORE AN OVERFLOW CONGREGATION.
AS SHE ENTERED, BROWN'S MOTHER,
LESLEY MCSPADDEN, STOOD THERE
FOR LONG MINUTES, WEEPING.
OTHER RELATIVES OFFERED
REMEMBRANCES.
HIS STEPMOTHER, CAL BROWN,
SAID THE TEENAGER NICKNAMED
"MIKE MIKE" BECAME HER BEST
FRIEND.
>> MIKE MIKE IS AN AWESOME MAN.
I HAVE TO SAY THAT BECAUSE I MET
HIM THREE YEARS AGO AND HE WAS A
BOY, BUT HE EVOLVED INTO A MAN.
A GOOD MAN.
AND HE JUST WANTED SO MUCH.
HE WANTED TO GO TO COLLEGE.
HE WANTED TO HAVE A FAMILY.
HE WANTED TO BE A GOOD FATHER.
BUT GOD CHOSE DIFFERENTLY AND
I'M AT PEACE ABOUT THAT BECAUSE
HE'S NOT A LOST SOUL.
HIS DEATH IS NOT IN VAIN.
>> Ifill: A COUSIN, TY PRUITT,
REINFORCED THE FAMILY'S CALL FOR
CALM IN A COMMUNITY THAT WAS
CONSUMED BY TEN DAYS OF UNREST
AFTER THE KILLING.
>> WE'RE GOING TO HIT THE
STREETS AGAIN AND YELL OUT FOR
OUR FREEDOM AND OUR EQUALITY AND
YELL OUT MIKE MIKE'S NAME AND
IT'S GONNA SHAKE THE HEAVENS
FROM THE THUNDER THAT WE
RELEASE.
BUT NOT TODAY, TODAY IS FOR
PEACE.
PEACE AND QUIET.
>> Ifill: BROWN'S FATHER,
MICHAEL BROWN SR., DELIVERED A
SIMILAR PLEA AT A RALLY
YESTERDAY.
>> TOMORROW, ALL I WANT IS PEACE
WHILE MY SON IS LAID TO REST.
>> Ifill: IN TODAY'S EULOGY, THE
REVEREND AL SHARPTON CALLED FOR
REFORMING THE NATION'S JUSTICE
SYSTEM.
>> THE POLICIES OF THIS COUNTRY
CANNOT GO UNCHALLENGED.
WE CANNOT HAVE AGGRESSIVE
POLICING OF LOW-LEVEL CRIMES AND
CAN'T DEAL WITH THE HIGHER
LEVEL.
SOMETHING STRANGE THAT YOU GET
ALL THESE GUNS INTO THE HOOD,
BUT YOU RUN AROUND CHASING FOLKS
SELLING LOOSE CIGARETTES AND
WALKING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
STREET.
THERE'S SOMETHING CRAZY ABOUT
THAT KIND OF POLICING.
>> Ifill: AFTER THE SERVICE, THE
FUNERALCE
TO THE CEMETERY WHERE MANY HELD
THEIR HANDS UP IN SILENT PROTEST
AS IT PASSED.
SOME NORMALCY RETURNED TO
FERGUSON TODAY, AS MORE THAN
11,000 AREA STUDENTS RETURNED TO
SCHOOL.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON WHERE THE
DEBATE OVER CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND
RACE GOES FROM HERE, WE TURN TO
THREE PEOPLE ENGAGED IN IT.
TRACIE KEESEE, CO-FOUNDER OF THE
CENTER FOR POLICING EQUITY AT
U.C.L.A.
SHE'S  A POLICE VETERAN WITH 25
YEARS OF SERVICE.
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR
FREDRICK HARRIS OF COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, WHO IS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE UNIVERSITY'S CENTER ON
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POLITICS AND
SOCIETY.
AND THE REVEREND STARSKY WILSON,
PASTOR OF SAINT JOHN'S UNITED
CHURCH OF CHRIST IN ST LOUIS.
HE IS ALSO PRESIDENT AND C.E.O.
OF DEACONESS FOUNDATION, A
FAITH-BASED GRANT-MAKING
ORGANIZATION FOR CHILDREN IN THE
ST. LOUIS REGION.
REVEREND WILSON, YOU WERE AT
MICHAEL BROWN'S FUNERAL
TODAY.
DID IT SEEM TO YOU THAT THE
COMMUNITY IS TAKING A DEEP
BREATH?
>> THE COMMUNITY IS, INDEED,
TAKING A DEEP BREATH.
BUT WE ARE SURE THAT IT'S
NOT FOR THE SAKE OF ULTIMATE
RELIEF.
IT IS NOT BECAUSE WE FEEL
FINALLY RELIEVED IT IS FOR
THE SAKE OF CATCHING OUR
BREATH TO GIVE APPROPRIATE
TIME FOR MOURNING, LAMENT
AND GRIEF, FOR MICHAEL BROWN
SENIOR AND THE FAMILY.
BUT COMMITTING WITH THE
FAMILY TO WORK TO DO THE
LONG WORK TOWARD BUILDING
FOR JUSTICE, BUILDING GOD'S
LOVE IN THE COMMUNITY FOR
THIS, BY SEEKING OUT AND
REFORMING.
THE RESPECTIVE SYSTEMS THAT
REALLY CREATED THIS
CHALLENGE, PARTICULARLY AS
RELATES TO COMMUNITY
POLICING AMONG
AFRICAN-AMERICANS IN THESE
KINDS OF COMMUNITIES LIKE
FERGUSON, WITH GREAT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POPULATIONS
BUT DISPARATE NUMBERS OF
POLICE, DISPARATE NUMBERS IN
CITY COUNCILS AND DISPARATE
REFLECTIONS OF THAT
REPRESENTATION IN
GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK TRACIE
KEESEE TO PICK UP ON THAT.
IS IT TOP-DOWN LEADERSHIP OR
BOTTOM-UP, KIND OF AN
ORGANIC MOVEMENT THAT IS
NEEDED HERE TO MOVE US TO
THE NEXT STEP?
>> YOU KNOW, COMMUNITY
POLICING WAS ALWAYS ABOUT A
BOTTOM-UP.
AND THAT WAS THAT
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
COMMUNITY.
AND I THINK THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT CAN NEVER BE
LOST.
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE THE
ONE THING THAT MOVES US
FORWARD.
YOU ALWAYS HAVE A TOP DOWN
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT INTERNAL
OR INSIDE THE ORGANIZATION
ITSELF, ABOUT HOW OFFICERS
ON THE STREET GET THEIR
MANDATES.
BUT THE ORIGINAL COMMUNITY
POLICING IS ABOUT THAT ON
THE GROUND UP PARTNERSHIP.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK
FREDRICK HARRIS, WE HAVE
BEEN THROUGH A COUPLE OF
WEEKS NOW OF GRIEF AND SHOCK
AND REMORSE AND ACCUSATION,
EVERYTHING YOU CAN NAME.
HAS THAT IN A STRANGE WAY,
HAS THIS TRAGEDY MAY AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR DISCOURSE?
>> I THINK IT'S A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY, IT'S A TRAGEDY
BUT IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TRANSFORM A TRAGEDY INTO, I
THINK, WHAT NEEDS TO BE
REALLY BROAD-BASED SOCIAL
CHANGE, CHANGE IN THE WAY
THAT POLICING IS BEING DONE
IN THE UNITED STATES.
GWEN, SINCE LAST FALL
THERE'S BEEN A SPATE OF
INCIDENTS THAT I THINK HAVE
REALLY CUMMULATED THE
DISCONTENT THAT YOU SEE NOT
ONLY IN FERGUSON BUT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
THERE WAS A KID WHO, A
COLLEGE KID IN CHARLOTTE,
NORTH CAROLINA, WHO WAS SHOT
WHILE HE WAS-- AFTER A CAR
ACCIDENT TRYING TO GET HELP
FROM THE POLICE.
AND YOU HAD JUST A FEW WEEKS
AGO THE CASE OF A MAN, A
BLACK MAN BEING CHOKED TO
DEATH WITH A CHOKE HOLD BY
PO IN MARYLAND.
SO I THINK-- ON STATEN
ISLAND SO I THINK THESE CUM
LATIF EFFECTS HAVE PUSHED
PEOPLE TO REALLY SEE THIS
NOT AS REALLY LOCAL,
ISOLATED PROBLEM, BUT I
WOULD SEE AS A CRISIS IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: WELL, LET ME ASK
REVEREND WILSON THIS.
HOW DIFFERENT IS THIS
EPISODE FROM THE ONES HE
NAMED, BUT ALSO FROM RODNEY
KING OR EMMITT TILL OR EVEN
MATTHEW SHEPHERD?
>> YEAH, I THINK THIS
EPISODE IS MORE AKIN AND
REALLY KIND OF CONNECTING TO
DR. HARRIS'S PIECE FROM THE
"WASHINGTON POST".
THIS PIECE IS MUCH MORE AKIN
TO EMMITT TILL IN THAT WE
HAVE THE SAME ISSUE OF
COMMUNITY TRAUMA THAT IS
BROUGHT TO US BY THE VISUAL
IMAGE OF A YOUNG PERSON IN
TRAGEDY.
WITH EMMITT TILL IT WAS THE
OPEN CASKET, WITH MICHAEL
BROWN, IT IS RATHER THE
IMAGE OF HIS BODY LAYING OUT
FOR FOUR HOURS ON THE GROUND,
IN THE MIDST OF HIS
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH TRAUMA FOR
THE NEIGHBORS AND CHILDREN
AND YOUNG PEOPLE OF THAT
COMMUNITY.
BUT THEN FOR THE MILLIONS OF
US WHO HAVE SEEN IT ON
SOCIAL MEDIA, HAVE SEEN THAT
IMAGE, THIS IS NOT SOMETHING
THAT IS NORMAL FOR THE
AVERAGE AMERICAN TO SEE.
SO WHEN THEY SEE THAT IMAGE,
AND JUXTAPOSE THAT IMAGE, OF
YOUNG PEOPLE AROUND MICHAEL
BROWN'S AGE GOING OUT TO
MAKE THEIR VOICES HEARD
THROUGH PUBLIC PROTEST AND
SEE THEM BEING RESPONDED TO
BY A MILITARIZED POLICE
FORCE, COMING UPON THEM,
THEN IT DOES RAISE THE
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER THIS
IS THE AMERICA THAT WE
DESIRE.
AND SO I THINK THOSE TWO
TRAUMATIC IMAGES JUXTAPOSE
TO ONE ANOTHER, CALL INTO
QUESTION OUR GREATEST
BELIEFS ABOUT WHAT AMERICA
IS, AND WHETHER THIS IS
TRULY THE LAND OF THE FREE
AND THE HOME OF THE BRAVE.
SO I THINK THIS IS ONE OF
THOSE THINGS THAT REALLY
GIVE US AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DR. HARRIS'S WORK TO BUILD
TOWARD A MOVEMENT BASED UPON
A PERSONAL CONNECTION WITH
THE IMAGES THAT WE HAVE
SEEN.
>> LET ME ASK TRACIE KEESEE
ABOUT THAT.
WE TALK ABOUT COMMUNITY
TRAUMA.
PART OF IT, AND WE SEE THIS
IN A NEW PEW POLE TODAY THAT
THERE IS WIDESPREAD DISTRUST
IN THAT POLICE WILL HANDLE
MANY OF THESE CASES FAIRLY,
NOT ONLY AMONG BLACK AMERICA
BUT WHITE AMERICA AND
HISPANIC AMERICANS TOO, WHAT
ARE THERE REPAIR FOR THIS
BREACH.
>> THE REPAIR BEGINS NOT
JUST ON THE GROUND WITH THE
COMMUNITY BUT IT ALSO BEGINS
ETERNALLY.
AND I THINK AS THOSE GUESTS
HAVE ELUDED TO, POLICING IS
ONE PIECE OF THAT.
I MEAN YOU HAVE SOCIAL
INEQUALITY OF EDUCATIONAL
ISSUES AS WELL.
BUT FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
ITSELF, THE LEADERSHIP IN
LAW ENFORCEMENT IS GOING TO
HAVE TO STEP UP TO THE PLATE
ON THIS AND BEGIN TO HAVE
THOSE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
WHAT IT IS THAT WE CAN DO
BETTER.
AND WHAT TYPE OF SERVICE DO
WE PROVIDE OUR COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR.
AND HAVE THAT CONVERSATION
WITH THE CUSTOMERS.
SO IT'S NOT ABOUT THIS
ISOLATED CONVERSATION ABOUT
TRUST AND TRANSPARENCY.
BUT WHAT DO OUR COMMUNITIES
EXPECT OF US.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHERE YOU
BEGIN.
THAT'S GOING TO BE A
DIFFICULT CONVERSATION TO
HAVE.
AND A LOT OF TIMES A
DIFFICULT CONVERSATION TO
LISTEN OOIRZ I WANT TO STAY
WITH YOU ON THIS.
PART OF THE CONVERSATION IS
THAT THE DIFFICULT
CONVERSATION IS OFTEN ABOUT
POLICY.
YOU CHANGE A LAW, YOU MAKE A
LAW.
THIS TIME IT'S ABOUT A
CULTURE OF DISTRUST.
THAT SEEMS LIKE IT'S MORE
AMORPHOUS TO GET YOUR ANDS
AROUND?
>> WELL, IT'S ALWAYS GOING
TO BE A LITTLE BIT MORE TO
GET YOUR ARMS AROUND.
IT JUST DEPENDS HOW
DEDICATED YOU ARE TO MAKING
THE CHANGE.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE
CONTINUE TO HEAR IS THE
DIVERSIFICATION OF THE
ORGANIZATION, THAT IS ONE
STEP, BUT THAT IS A SMALL
STEP.
ONCE YOU GET FOLKS THROUGH
THE DOOR AND GET THEM OUT OF
THE ACADEMY, YOU HAVE TO GET
THEM, ONE, TO STAY.
AND IF THE ORGANIZATION
ITSELF IS NOT WELCOMING OF
OFFICERS OF COLOR OR WOMEN
OR TRANSGENDERED OR GBLT,
WILL YOU STILL HAVE THE SAME
HAD.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
T IS JUST AS A MATTER OF
FACT IF ARE YOU GOING TO BE
DEDICATED TO IT AFTER THE
CAMERAS ARE GONE.
>> FREDRICK HARRIS, MARTIN
LUTHER KING WROTE, I BELIEVE
THERE WAS A BOOK FROM CHAOS
TO COMMUNITY WHERE DO WE GO
FROM HERE.
WHAT IS YOUR ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION TODAY?
>> I THINK WHERE WE GO FROM
HERE IS THAT WE NEED
POLITICAL ORGANIZING.
AND I SAY THIS BECAUSE I
WORRY THAT ONCE THE MARCHING
STOPS, YOU KNOW, ONCE THE
CAMERAS LEAVE FERGUSON, THAT
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WILL
REALLY FORGET THIS TRAGEDY.
AND SO ONE THING THAT WE
HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND IS THAT
FOR DR. KING AND OTHERS
DURING THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT, THERE WERE PEAKS,
THERE WERE CHALLENGES.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE AWHILE
FOR THERE TO BE SUBSTANTIVE
POLICY CHANGE.
YOU KNOW, FROM '55 WHEN
EMMITT TILL WAS MURDERED, IT
TOOK A DECADE BEFORE WE GOT
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT AND THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
SO WHAT I WOULD SAY IS
ORGANIZING, BUILDING ALLIES
AS THE POLL NUMBERS SUGGEST,
THERE ARE FOLKS OUT THERE
WHO ARE ALSO CONCERNED
BEYOND THE BLACK COMMUNITIES
ABOUT POLICING.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING I THINK
EFFECTS THE GAY AND LESBIAN
COMMUNITY, I THINK IT'S
SOMETHING THAT AFFECTS THE
PRO IMMIGRATION COMMUNITY,
ISSUES AROUND POLICING.
AND ALSO I THINK WE SHOULD
THINK ABOUT THE BEST OF THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT WHICH
IS BRINGING THESE
HUMAN-RIGHTS ABUSES TO AN
INTERNATIONAL STAGE.
>> Ifill: REVEREND WILSON
YOU APPEARED ON A PROGRAM ON
LOCAL PBS STATION IN WHICH
ONE OF YOUR FELLOW PASTORS
SAID WHAT WE NEED NOW IS A
NEW NORMAL.
YOU NODDED YOUR HEAD.
TELL ME WHAT YOU THINK THAT
MEANS?
>> YEAH, THAT WAS MY GOOD
FRIEND REVEREND TRACIE
BLACKMAN.
WHAT SHE SUGGESTED WAS THAT
THE WAY WE'VE BEEN DOING
BUSINESS, PARTICULARLY AND I
THINK SHE SPECIFIED IN THE
ST. LOUIS REGION, THE WAY
WE'VE BEEN DOING BUSINESS IS
NOT ACCEPTABLE.
THE RESPONSE OF
AFRICAN-AMERICAN LEADERSHIP
THAT HAS NOT BEEN UNIFIED
BECAUSE IT IS NOT NETWORKED
OR ORGANIZED, IS UNACCEPTED.
THE FACT THAT YOUNG PEOPLE
EXPRESSING THEIR VOICE AND
FELT DISCONNECTED FROM THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN CLERICAL
LEADERSHIP IS UNACCEPTABLE.
AND THE FACT THAT WE
CONTINUE TO HAVE POLICE WHO
DO NOT RESPOND EVEN TO THE
MAJORITY OF THEIR COMMUNITY
IN WAYS THAT ARE CARING,
THAT ILLUSTRATE THAT THEY
ARE THERE TO SERVE AND
PROTECT.
IS NOT ACCEPTABLE.
SO WE'VE GOT TO MAKE SOME
SPECIFIC DECISIONS AND BEGIN
TO MAKE SOME MOVES FROM
HERE.
OUR FOUNDATION HAS VERY
SPECIFICALLY NOTED, WE SAW
THE YOUTH ENERGY OUT THERE
AND SAW THE DESIRE TO
EXPRESS ITSELF.
SO WE HAVE INVESTED IN YOUTH
ORGANIZING.
AND SO WHAT WE WANT TO PUT
SOME FUNDING, AND WE ARE,
HAVE ALREADY ALLOCATED SOME
TO ORGANIZE SOME OF THOSE
YOUNG PEOPLE WHO ARE DOWN
THERE PROTESTING, TO HELP
THEM LEARN TO MAP POWER AND
CUT ISSUES, NO NETWORK
AFRICAN-AMERICAN-- IN OUR
COMMUNITY SO WE HAVE BETTER
RESPONSES AND MORE
COORDINATED RESPONSES IN THE
FUTURE AND TO INVITE
PROGRAMS LIKE MY BROTHER'S
KEEPER.
THAT THIS IS A NIGHTS
PROGRAM THAT NEEDS TO BE
BROUGHT INTO COMMUNITIES OF
NEED LIKE OURS, AND
LEVERAGED FOR MAXIMUM
BENEFIT SO THAT WE CAN
REALLY SEE THOSE OUTCOMES
INVESTED INTO YOUNG MEN LIKE
MIKE BROWN.
THAT MUST BE OUR NEW NORMAL.
>> Ifill: REVEREND STARSKY
WILSON OF ST. JOHNS UNITED
CHURCH OF CHRIST,FREDRICK
HARRIS OF THE COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY.
AND TRACIE KEESEE OF THE
CENTER FOR POLICING EQUITY,
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: BUSINESSES AND
RESIDENTS OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA
ASSESSED THE DAMAGE TODAY,
AFTER THE STRONGEST EARTHQUAKE
IN DECADES ROCKED THE AREA OVER
THE WEEKEND, SOME ANALYSTS
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC LOSSES COULD
REACH $4 BILLION.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS HAS OUR REPORT
FROM NAPA VALLEY.
>> Reporter: THE PEOPLE OF NAPA
PICKED UP WHERE THEY LEFT OFF
LAST NIGHT, CLEANING UP THE MESS
THE EARTHQUAKE LEFT BEHIND.
CHUNKS OF BRICKS AND BROKEN
GLASS WERE STREWN ACROSS THE
STREETS.
AS OF THIS MORNING, LOCAL
OFFICIALS ESTIMATED AT LEAST 90
HOMES AND BUILDINGS INCLUDING
THE HISTORIC COUNTY THOUSE
WERE DEEMED UNSAFE TO OCCUPY.
>> TONIGHT AFTER WE'VE LOOKED AT
ALL OF THE PROPERTIES, ALL OF
THE INFRASTRUCTURE, ONE HE
FIRST THINGS WE'LL BE DOING IN
THE NEXT DAY OR SO IS SITTING
DOWN AND TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN IN TERMS OF
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPACT, PRIVATE,
PUBLIC AS WELL AS ECONOMIC
IMPACT.
>> Reporter: THE EARTHQUAKE, AT
6.0, STRUCK IN THE WEE HOURS OF
SUNDAY, IN THE HEART OF NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA'S WINE COUNTRY.
>> I'M STILL KIND OF CAUGHT UP
IN BEING BACK AND HOW VIOLENT
THE SHAKING WAS.
IT'S JUST AMAZING.
YOU DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN IN NAPA.
YOU HEAR EVERYTHING IS IN SAN
FRANCISCO, LOS ANGELES.
FOR AN EPICENTER TO BE RIGHT
HERE IN NAPA ITSELF IS KIND OF
SHOCKING.
>> Reporter: THE SHOCK CAME AS
THE REGION'S FAMED VINEYARDS
WERE WELL INTO HARVESTING
SEASON, IN AN INDUSTRY THAT
GENERATES MORE THAN $13 BILLION
A YEAR.
THOUSANDS OF BOTTLES OF WINE
WERE SHAKEN FROM THEIR SHELVES
AND ONTO CELLAR FLOORS.
IN SOME CASES, ENTIRE BARRELS
TOPPLED OVER, SPILLING THEIR
CONTENTS SOME VINEYARDS LOST
POWER, DISRUPTING THE
FERMENTATION PROCESS FOR THIS
YEAR'S VINTAGE.
AND INDIVIDUAL WINE BARS AND
WINERIES REPORTED LOSSES RANGING
FROM $15,000 TO $20,000 EACH.
>> Reporter: MADONNA ESTATES WAS
ONE WINERY THAT SUFFERED
SIGNIFICANT DAMAGE.
WITHIN THERE'S NOT ENOUGH,
AND IT MOVED, JUMPED AROUND,
THEY ALL CAME TO THE POINT
WHERE THEY JUMPED OFF THE
END AND FELL DOWN.
THE HARVEST IS GETTING READY
TO START THIS WEEK.
AND I'M DEALING WITH IN.
>> Reporter: THE TREMOR ALSO
FORCED MANY WINERIES AND
RESTAURANTS TO CLOSE, AT THE
HEIGHT OF THE TOURISM SEASON.
>> IT WAS A MESS, YOU REALLY
HAVE TO WALK OVER JUST TO
GET TO THE MAIN DINING ROOM.
SO WE PRETTY MUCH LOST, I
WOULD SAY 80% OF OUR
INVENTORY.
ANOURSE WE LOST FOOD
BECAUSE WE HAD NO POWER.
>> Reporter: THE NAPA EARTHQUAKE
WAS THE STRONGEST IN CALIFORNIA
SINCE THE 1989 LOMA PRIETA QUAKE
THAT KILLED 62 PEOPLE AND WAS
MEASURED AT 7.6, TIMES STRONGER
THAN THIS ONE.
THE LARGEST QUAKE IN THESE PARTS
WAS IN 1906, A 7.8 THAT
DESTROYED SAN FRANCISCO.
THE NAPA QUAKE, WHILE NOT IN
THAT CATEGORY, WAS A SHARP
REMINDER THAT THE BAY AREA IS
EARTHQUAKE COUNTRY.
SEVERAL OF THE DAMAGED BUILDINGS
IN DOWNTOWN NAPA HAD NOT BEEN
RETROFITTED TO WITHSTAND
EARTHQUAKES.
A PROCESS WHICH, ACCORDING TO
ARCHITECT ANTHONY VAN KRIEKEN,
SAVED MANY OTHER BUILDINGS.
>> MOST OF THE ONES THAT
WERE RETROFITTED ACTUALLY
HELD UP VERY WELL.
THEY DO DIFFERENT PROCESSES
BUT IF YOU GO THE CHRIS
CROSS AND THE HEAVY IRON AND
ALL THOSE APPLICATIONS,
THOSE SEEM TO HAVE HELD UP
WELL.
THERE ARE SEVERAL BUILDING
RIGHT ON MAIN STREET THAT I
COULD SHOW YOU THAT HELD UP
PERFECTLY WITH NO DAMAGE AT
ALL
>> Reporter: SCHOOLS WERE CLOSED
TODAY AS CLASSROOMS WERE
INSPECTED.
POWER AND GAS WERE MOSTLY
RESTORED TO THOUSANDS OF HOMES
AND BUSINESSES THAT LOST
SERVICE.
AROUND 600 PROPERTIES WILL
REMAIN WITHOUT WATER UNTIL LATER
THIS WEEK.
AND "QUEEN OF THE VALLEY"
MEDICAL CENTER IN NAPA SAID IT
TREATED TWO HUN A
PEOPLE HURT IN THE EARTHQUAKE,
ONE PERSON REMAINS IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
>> Ifill: LAST WEEK'S EXECUTION-
STYLE MURDER OF JOURNALIST JAMES
FOLEY HAS INTENSIFIED THE DEBATE
OVER HOW THE U.S. SHOULD HANDLE
THE EXPANDING "ISLAMIC STATE"
GROUP.
OFFICIALS AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
THE PENTAGON HAVE SIGNALED THEY
WILL SOON ACT AGAINST THE
MILITANT GROUP SOON, PERHAPS
STRIKING WITHIN SYRIA.
JEFFREY BROWN TAKES A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE CHOICES FACING THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
>> Brown: U.S. JETS, FLYING OFF
THE CARRIER GEORGE H.W. BUSH,
KEPT UP AIR STRIKES AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS IN IRAQ,
OVER THE WEEKEND.
THERE WAS ALSO GROWING TALK OF
EXPANDING THE AIR CAMPAIGN
ACROSS THE BORDER INTO SYRIA.
ARMY GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY,
CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS,
SAID LAST WEEK THAT'S THE ONLY
WAY TO DEFEAT THE MILITANT
GROUP.
BUT AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST WAS NON-
COMMITTAL TODAY.
>> THE PRESIDENT THUS FAR HAS
NOT MADE A DECISION TO ORDER
ADDITIONAL MILITARY ACTION IN
SYRIA.
>> Brown: ALSO TODAY, SYRIA'S
FOREIGN MINISTER TODAY REJECTED
ANY AIR STRIKES, UNLESS DAMASCUS
IS CONSULTED.
STILL, HE SAID SYRIA WELCOMES
ALL HELP, DESPITE REPEATED U.S.
CALLS FOR PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-
ASSAD TO STEP DOWN.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE READY
TO COOPERATE AND COORDINATE WITH
REGIONAL COUNTRIES AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY IN
FIGHTING TERRORISM FOLLOWING THE
RESOLUTIONS OF THE SECURITY
COUNCIL.
WE WELCOME EVERYBODY.
>> Brown: THE NEED FOR HELP WAS
EVIDENT SUNDAY, AS ISLAMIC STATE
FORCES CAPTURED THE LAST MAJOR
MILITARY BASE IN NORTHEASTERN
SYRIA.
THEY CELEBRATED IN THE STREETS
OF RAQQA, WITH VEHICLES HONKING
HORNS AND SHOTS FIRED IN THE
AIR.
CALLS FOR U.S. ACTION TO EXTEND
INTO SYRIA HAVE MOUNTED
SINCE AMERICAN JOURNALIST JAMES
FOLEY WAS BEHEADED BY "ISLAMIC
STATE" CAPTORS.
>> Brown: MEANWHILE, THE U.N.
HUMAN RIGHTS CHIEF, NAVI PILLAY,
ACCUSED "ISLAMIC STATE" FORCES
OF WIDESPREAD CRIMES IN IRAQ,
INCLUDING SLAVERY, SEXUAL ABUSE,
AND MASS EXECUTIONS OF HUNDREDS
OF PRISONERS.
>> Brown: HOW GREAT A THREAT IS
THE "ISLAMIC STATE" GROUP?
AND WHAT SHOULD THE U.S. DO
ABOUT IT?
WE JOIN THE DEBATE, WITH RETIRED
ARMY COLONEL PETER MANSOOR.
HE WAS EXECUTIVE OFFICER TO
GENERAL DAVID PETRAEUS IN IRAQ
DURING THE SURGE IN 2007 AND
EIGHT.
HE'S NOW AN ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
OF MILITARY HISTORY AT THE OHIO
STATE UNIVERSITY.
AND STEPHEN WALT IS PROFESSOR OF
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AT
HARVARD UNIVERSITY.
HE'S WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ABOUT
SECURITY POLICY ISSUES.
PETER MANSOOR, LET ME
START WITH YOU.
HOW DO YOU DEFINE THE THREAT
AND HOW URGENT IS THE NEED
TO ACT?
>> WELL, ISIS IS A GROUP
THAT IS WELL-FUNDED, WELL
ARMED, AND HATS THOUSANDS OF
FIGHTERS UNDER ITS RANKS AND
MORE JOINING IT EVERY DAY.
IT'S A THREAT TO THE REGION.
IT CAN DESTABILIZE THE
MIDDLE EAST FROM WHICH WE
GET MOST OF OUR OIL IN TERMS
OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY.
AND IT CAN INJECT TERRORISM
INTO EUROPE AND THE UNITED
STATES GIVEN THAT IT HAS
HUNDREDS OF FIGHTERS IN ITS
RANKS WHO HOLD WESTERN
PASSPORTS.
SO THIS IS A GROUP THAT IS A
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES
AND THE GLOB AT-- GLOBAL
COMMUNITY AND NEEDS TO BE
DEALT WITH.
>> Brown: STEPHEN WALT, HOW
DO YOU DEFINE TO THAT?
-- RESPOND TO THAT.
HOW DO YOU DEFINE THE
THREAT.
>> NO QUESTION ISIS IS A
BUNCH OF VERY BAD GUYS BUT
IT'S PRIMARILY A THREAT TO
THE PEOPLE IN THE AREAS THEY
CONTROL AND NOT A DIRECT
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES
IT IT'S A PREDOMINANTLY
SUNNI GROUP WHICH WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO EXPAND INTO
NONSUNNI AREAS.
AND THEENTIAL TERRORIST
THREAT THERE, I THINK, HAS
BEEN GREATLY EXAGGERATED.
THERE ARE LOTS OF GROUPS
AROUND THE WORLD WHO WOULD
LIKE TO BE ABLE TO GO AFTER
THE UNITED STATES.
MOST OF THEM FAIL.
AND, IN FACT, THE WAY TO
DEAL WITH IT IS PRIMARILY
WITH INTELLIGENCE AND
COUNTERTERRORISM HERE AT
HOM
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, SO
PETER MANSOOR, WHAT EXACTLY
WOULD YOU PRO
POTE-- PROPOSE.
ARE AIR STRIKES INTO SYRIA
REQUIRED?
ARE SPECIAL FORCES ON THE
GROUND REQUIRED?
SPELL IT OUT FOR US WHAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SEE.
>> IF THE GOAL IS TO DESTROY
ISIS YOU HAVE TO DO IT ON
BOTH SIDES OF WHAT IS NOW A
NONEXISTENT INTERNATIONAL
BORDER.
BECAUSE OTHERWISE IF YOU
JUST DEAL WITH THE GROUP IN
IRAQ, IT WILL JUST MOVE BACK
INTO SYRIA AND REMETASTASIZE.
I BELIEVE WE NEED TO WAIT
UNTIL THERE'S AN INCLUSIVE
AND LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT IN
BAGHDAD.
BUT PROVIDED THAT HAPPENS
UNDER PRIME MINISTER
DESIGNATE AL-ABADI, THEN I
THINK WE NEED TO PROVIDE
ADVISORS AN TRAINERS TO
REFORM AND RETRAIN THE IRAQI
ARMEY AND KURDISH PESHMERGA,
RAMP UP TO THE KURDISH
FORCES IN THE NORTH.
RAMP UP OUR AIR STRIKES AND
PROVIDE MORE DRONE STRIKES
AND AIRCRAFT, AND BASE THEM
IN THE REGION SO THEY DON'T
HAVE TO BE BASED ON SHIPS
FLOATING OUT IN THE GULF.
AND THEN I THINK, AND THIS
IS PROBABLY THE MOST
CONTROVERSIAL POINT OF WHAT
I HAVE TO SAY, WE NEED TO
PROVIDE SPECIAL FORCES TO
EMBED THEMSELVES WITH SUNNI
TRIBES AND REKINDLE THE
AWAKENING THAT DID SO MUCH
TO DESTROY THE FORERUNNER TO
ISIS, AL QAEDA IN IRAQ THERE
2006, 2007 AND 2008.
AND THEY NEED TO DO THAT
PROBABLY ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE IRAQI SYRIAN BORDER.
>> Brown: STEPHEN WALT, YOU
DIDN'T SEE THE SAME THREAT,
SO I ASSUME YOU DON'T SEE
THAT SAME KIND OF RAMP UP.
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE?
>> I THINK THAT FIRST OF ALL
THE UNITED STATES SHOULD
REMEMBER THAT WE HAVE SPENT
THE LAST 15 YEARS TRYING TO
USE MILITARY POWER INCLUDING
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO TRY
AND ORGANIZE THE POLITICS OF
THIS REGION.
WE HAVE FAILED MISERABLY.
WE HAVE A FAILED STATE IN
IRAQ.
LIBYA, AND WE SPENT $25
WE HAVE A FAILED STATE IN
BILLION TRAINING THE IRAQI
LIBYA, AND WE SPENT $25
ARMY WHICH THEN
BILLION TRAINING THE IRAQI
SUBSEQUENTLYLY TURNED AND
ARMY WHICH THEN
RAN WHEN CONFRONTED BY ISIS.
SUBSEQUENTLYLY TURNED AND
SO I THINK TO BELIEVE THAT
RAN WHEN CONFRONTED BY ISIS.
WE CAN GO IN AGAIN WITH AIR
SO I THINK TO BELIEVE THAT
POWER, PRIMARILY, AND SOME
WE CAN GO IN AGAIN WITH AIR
SPECIAL FORCES AND ELIMINATE
POWER, PRIMARILY, AND SOME
THIS PROBLEM IS FANSIFUL.
SPECIAL FORCES AND ELIMINATE
THIS IS GOING TO BE
THIS PROBLEM IS FANSIFUL.
ULTIMATELY A PROBLEM FOR
THIS IS GOING TO BE
LOCALS TO DEAL WITH, NOT FOR
ULTIMATELY A PROBLEM FOR
THE UNITED STATES TO TRY AND
LOCALS TO DEAL WITH, NOT FOR
DEAL WITH.
THE UNITED STATES TO TRY AND
AND BECAUSE IT IS NOT A
DEAL WITH.
VITAL THREAT TO CORE
AND BECAUSE IT IS NOT A
AMERICAN SECURITY INTERESTS,
VITAL THREAT TO CORE
IT'S ONE WE SHOULD STAY AWAY
AMERICAN SECURITY INTERESTS,
FROM.
IT'S ONE WE SHOULD STAY AWAY
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THOUGH,
FROM.
MR. WALT, THE ARGUMENT THAT
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THOUGH,
IF THE U.S. DOESN'T DO
MR. WALT, THE ARGUMENT THAT
SOMETHING NOW, IT MAY BE TOO
IF THE U.S. DOESN'T DO
LATE LATER ON IF YOU ARE'S
SOMETHING NOW, IT MAY BE TOO
WRONG?
LATE LATER ON IF YOU ARE'S
>> WELL, AGAIN, WE HAVE TO
WRONG?
RECOGNIZE, THIS IS NOT THE
>> WELL, AGAIN, WE HAVE TO
THIRD REICH THIS IS NOT AN
RECOGNIZE, THIS IS NOT THE
INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
THIRD REICH THIS IS NOT AN
MOVEMENT.
INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
IT HAS MAYBE 20,000 FIGHTERS,
MOVEMENT.
NO AIR FORCE, NO NAVY.
IT HAS MAYBE 20,000 FIGHTERS,
LIGHTLY ARMED INFANT REE
NO AIR FORCE, NO NAVY.
THAT HAS BEEN ABLE TO
LIGHTLY ARMED INFANT REE
WITHSTAND IN STATELESS AREA,
THAT HAS BEEN ABLE TO
AREAS THAT ARE STATELESS, IN
WITHSTAND IN STATELESS AREA,
PART, BECAUSE WE DESTROYED
AREAS THAT ARE STATELESS, IN
THE STATES THAT WERE
PART, BECAUSE WE DESTROYED
GOVERNING THERE.
THE STATES THAT WERE
AND THE IDEA WE WILL GO IN
GOVERNING THERE.
AGAIN WITH A FEW THOUSAND
AND THE IDEA WE WILL GO IN
SPECIAL FORCES AN REORGANIZE
AGAIN WITH A FEW THOUSAND
THE POLITICS OF THAT REGION,
SPECIAL FORCES AN REORGANIZE
I THINK, HAS BEEN TRIED AND
THE POLITICS OF THAT REGION,
FOUND WANTING IN THE PAST.
I THINK, HAS BEEN TRIED AND
AND IT WOULD BE FOUND
FOUND WANTING IN THE PAST.
WANTING AGAIN IF WE TRIED 2
AND IT WOULD BE FOUND
AGAIN.
WANTING AGAIN IF WE TRIED 2
>> Brown: AND PETER MANSOOR,
AGAIN.
SPEAKING OF COMPLICATION, IN
>> Brown: AND PETER MANSOOR,
YOUR ARGUMENT SYRIA HAS
SPEAKING OF COMPLICATION, IN
WARNED AGAINST AIR STRIKES
YOUR ARGUMENT SYRIA HAS
INTO ITS SPACE.
WARNED AGAINST AIR STRIKES
WOULD YOUR-- WOULD A PUSH
INTO ITS SPACE.
TOWARD GOING ACROSS THE
WOULD YOUR-- WOULD A PUSH
BORDER NOT COMPLICATE THINGS
TOWARD GOING ACROSS THE
EVEN MORE THERE?
BORDER NOT COMPLICATE THINGS
>> WELL, IT'S A SIMPLE
EVEN MORE THERE?
MILITARY MISSION OF
>> WELL, IT'S A SIMPLE
DESTROYING AN ENEMY ARMED
MILITARY MISSION OF
FORCE.
DESTROYING AN ENEMY ARMED
AND WE SEND SYRIA A SIMPLE
FORCE.
MESSAGE, STAY OUT OF OUR WAY
AND WE SEND SYRIA A SIMPLE
OR WE WILL START BOMBING YOU
MESSAGE, STAY OUT OF OUR WAY
AS WELL.
OR WE WILL START BOMBING YOU
AND I THINK BASHAR AL-ASSAD
AS WELL.
AND HIS FORCES WOULD BE
AND I THINK BASHAR AL-ASSAD
HAPPY TO WATCH US BOMB ISIS
AND HIS FORCES WOULD BE
WITH OR WITHOUT COORDINATION
HAPPY TO WATCH US BOMB ISIS
WITH THEM.
WITH OR WITHOUT COORDINATION
I THINK THE MAIN DIFFERENCE
WITH THEM.
BETWEEN PROFESSOR WALT AND
I THINK THE MAIN DIFFERENCE
ME IS HE DOESN'T SEE ISIS AS
BETWEEN PROFESSOR WALT AND
A THREAT TO THE UNITED
ME IS HE DOESN'T SEE ISIS AS
STATES.
A THREAT TO THE UNITED
AND I SEE IT AS A DIRECT
STATES.
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES.
AND I SEE IT AS A DIRECT
IT HAS AN IDEOLOGY THAT WILL
THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES.
EVENTUALLY LEAD IT TO ATTACK
IT HAS AN IDEOLOGY THAT WILL
US.
EVENTUALLY LEAD IT TO ATTACK
>> Brown: MR. MANSOOR, EVEN
US.
IF IT IS A THREAT OR NOT TO
>> Brown: MR. MANSOOR, EVEN
THE UNITED STATES, ONE OF
IF IT IS A THREAT OR NOT TO
HIS ARGUMENTS AS I HEAR IT
THE UNITED STATES, ONE OF
IS HISTORY DOES NOT BODE
HIS ARGUMENTS AS I HEAR IT
WELL.
IS HISTORY DOES NOT BODE
IT DOES NOT SHOW US THAT THE
WELL.
U.S. HAS THE KIND OF POWER,
IT DOES NOT SHOW US THAT THE
ABILITY, EFFICIENCY TO DO
U.S. HAS THE KIND OF POWER,
WHAT YOU THINK WE CAN DO.
ABILITY, EFFICIENCY TO DO
>> WELL, I BEG TO DIFFER.
WHAT YOU THINK WE CAN DO.
I JUST FINISHED WRITING A
>> WELL, I BEG TO DIFFER.
BOOK ON THE SURGE.
I JUST FINISHED WRITING A
AND THERE 2007 AND 2008 WE
BOOK ON THE SURGE.
DID TURN AROUND A WAR EFFORT
AND THERE 2007 AND 2008 WE
THAT HAD NEARLY FAILED, AND
DID TURN AROUND A WAR EFFORT
HAD THAT COUNTRY ON THE ROAD
THAT HAD NEARLY FAILED, AND
TO STABILITY.
HAD THAT COUNTRY ON THE ROAD
UNFORTUNATELY, THROUGH
TO STABILITY.
POLITICAL MISSTEPS, MOST OF
UNFORTUNATELY, THROUGH
THEM BY PRIME MINISTER NOURI
POLITICAL MISSTEPS, MOST OF
AL-MALIKI THAT VICTORY WAS
THEM BY PRIME MINISTER NOURI
THROWN AWAY.
AL-MALIKI THAT VICTORY WAS
SO I DON'T SEE THE SAME
THROWN AWAY.
MILITARY DYSFUNCTION AS
SO I DON'T SEE THE SAME
PROFESSOR WALT.
MILITARY DYSFUNCTION AS
WHAT I DO KNOW IS THAT
PROFESSOR WALT.
WITHOUT U.S. HELP, IRAQI
WHAT I DO KNOW IS THAT
FORCES AND KURDISH FORCES
WITHOUT U.S. HELP, IRAQI
CANNOT DEFEAT ISIS.
FORCES AND KURDISH FORCES
>> Brown: STEPHEN WALT?
CANNOT DEFEAT ISIS.
>> I THINK FIRST OF ALL IF
>> Brown: STEPHEN WALT?
THE IRAQI FORCES AND KURDISH
>> I THINK FIRST OF ALL IF
FORCES CAN'T DT ,
THE IRAQI FORCES AND KURDISH
THEN WE'RE TO THE GOING TO
FORCES CAN'T DT ,
BE ABLE TO DEFEAT THEM
THEN WE'RE TO THE GOING TO
OURSELVES.
BE ABLE TO DEFEAT THEM
AND WE DISAGREE ON THE
OURSELVES.
SUCCESS OF THE SURGE.
AND WE DISAGREE ON THE
THE SURGE WAS A TACTICAL
SUCCESS OF THE SURGE.
SUCCESS BUT A STRATEGIC
THE SURGE WAS A TACTICAL
FAILURE DOES IT DID NOT
SUCCESS BUT A STRATEGIC
PRODUCE THE POLITICAL
FAILURE DOES IT DID NOT
RECONCILIATION THAT WAS A
PRODUCE THE POLITICAL
REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGIC
RECONCILIATION THAT WAS A
SUCCESS THERE.
REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGIC
AND THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT
SUCCESS THERE.
WE HAVE THE MAGIC FORM LA
AND THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT
FOR RECREATING POLITICAL
WE HAVE THE MAGIC FORM LA
ORDER IN SYRIA OR IN IRAQ.
FOR RECREATING POLITICAL
AND ULTIMATELY THAT'S GOING
ORDER IN SYRIA OR IN IRAQ.
TO BE A TASK FOR THE
AND ULTIMATELY THAT'S GOING
RESIDENTS OF THOSE AREAS TO
TO BE A TASK FOR THE
DO AND NOT EXPECT THE UNITED
RESIDENTS OF THOSE AREAS TO
STATES TO DO IT FOR THEM.
DO AND NOT EXPECT THE UNITED
>> Brown: ONE OTHER BRIEF
STATES TO DO IT FOR THEM.
ISSUE, PETERMAN SOOR WA,
>> Brown: ONE OTHER BRIEF
ABOUT THE ALLIES, SHOULD THE
ISSUE, PETERMAN SOOR WA,
U.S. ACT ALONE IF IT DOES
ABOUT THE ALLIES, SHOULD THE
NOT HAVE THE SUPPORT OF
U.S. ACT ALONE IF IT DOES
OTHER ALLIES?
NOT HAVE THE SUPPORT OF
>> WE ACTUALLY DO HAVE THE
OTHER ALLIES?
SUPPORT OF A LOT OF NATIONS
>> WE ACTUALLY DO HAVE THE
AROUND THE WORLD WHO HAVE
SUPPORT OF A LOT OF NATIONS
BEEN CALLING FOR U.S.
AROUND THE WORLD WHO HAVE
LEADERSHIP IN THIS CASE.
BEEN CALLING FOR U.S.
EUROPE MEAN NATIONS WOULD
LEADERSHIP IN THIS CASE.
LIKE TO SEE ISIS DESTROYED.
EUROPE MEAN NATIONS WOULD
THEY REALIZE THAT A LOT OF
LIKE TO SEE ISIS DESTROYED.
THEIR CITIZENS ARE IN ISIS
THEY REALIZE THAT A LOT OF
RANKS, AND COULD BE A THREAT
THEIR CITIZENS ARE IN ISIS
TO THEM AS WELL.
RANKS, AND COULD BE A THREAT
SO WITH U.S. LEADERSHIP I
TO THEM AS WELL.
BELIEVE THAT WE ACTUALLY
SO WITH U.S. LEADERSHIP I
WILL HAVE INTERNATIONAL
BELIEVE THAT WE ACTUALLY
LEGITIMACY FOR THIS MISSION
WILL HAVE INTERNATIONAL
UNLIKE THE WAR IN 2003.
LEGITIMACY FOR THIS MISSION
>> AND A BRIEF LAST WORD FOR
UNLIKE THE WAR IN 2003.
YOU STEPHEN WALT F THE U.S.
>> AND A BRIEF LAST WORD FOR
HAS THAT KIND OF LEGITIMACY.
YOU STEPHEN WALT F THE U.S.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
HAS THAT KIND OF LEGITIMACY.
ALMOST EVERYONE AROUND THE
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
WORLD WOULD LIKE TO SEE ISIS
ALMOST EVERYONE AROUND THE
WEAKENED BUT ULTIMATELY THAT
WORLD WOULD LIKE TO SEE ISIS
WILL BE A TASK FOR THE
WEAKENED BUT ULTIMATELY THAT
PEOPLE MOSTLY THREATENED AND
WILL BE A TASK FOR THE
IT IS THE PEOPLE LIVING
PEOPLE MOSTLY THREATENED AND
RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO ISIS, NOT
IT IS THE PEOPLE LIVING
THE UNITED STATES WHICH IS
RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO ISIS, NOT
AN OCEAN AWAY.
THE UNITED STATES WHICH IS
>> STEPHEN WALT AND PETER
AN OCEAN AWAY.
MANSOOR, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> STEPHEN WALT AND PETER
WE'LL CONTINUE THE DEBATE.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO A NEW
SERIES WE'RE CALLING "RETHINKING
COLLEGE."
AS THE FALL SEMESTER BEGINS ON
CAMPUSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
THERE ARE CLOUDS ON THE HORIZON.
SKYROCKETING TUITION, CRIPPLING
STUDENT DEBT, AND AN UNCERTAIN
JOB MARKET HAVE LED MANY TO
REEXAMINE THE VALUE OF TODAY'S
COLLEGE DEGREE.
OUR SERIES BEGINS WITH A LOOK AT
A PRETTY RADICAL CHALLENGE TO
THE TRADITIONAL COLLEGE
EXPERIENCE.
THIS ONE FEATURES NO CLASSROOMS
OR PROFESSORS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> JUST GIVING YOU KIND OF A
BROAD OVERVIEW.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE THAN A
CENTURY, HIGHER EDUCATION HAS
RELIED ON THE CREDIT HOUR,
STUDENTS EARN CREDIT FOR HOURS
SPENT IN CLASS, IN TURN, CREDITS
ADD UP TO A COLLEGE DEGREE.
>> LET ME START OUT WITH THE
COMMON LAW DEFINITION.
>>n: AND WHILE THE
CREDIT HOUR IS STILL THE
MAINSTAY HERE AT SOUTHERN NEW
HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY, A PRIVATE
INSTITUTION OF 17,000 STUDENTS,
THE SCHOOL HAS ALSO EMBARKED ON
A MOVEMENT THAT QUESTIONS THE
VERY VALUE OF THE COLLEGE
CLASSROOM.
PRESIDENT PAUL LEBLANC SAYS THE
NATION INVESTS TOO MUCH IN THE
IDEA OF THE CREDIT HOUR.
>> WE GIVE A HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THREE BILLION DOLLARS OF FEDERAL
FINANCIAL AID OUT EVERY YEAR
BASED ON THE CREDIT HOUR.
BUT THE CREDIT HOUR IS REALLY
ONLY GOOD AT ONE THING, OR AT
LEAST THE PRINCIPAL THING, WHICH
IS TELLING PEOPLE HOW LONG YOU
SAT, HOW LONG WERE YOU IN CLASS.
IT'S NOT VERY GOOD AT TELLING
PEOPLE WHAT YOU'VE ACTUALLY
LEARNED.
>> Sreenivasan: UNDER LEBLANC'S
LEADERSHIP, SOUTHERN NEW
HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY HAS
LAUNCHED "COLLEGE FOR AMERICA,"
AN ONLINE DEGREE PROGRAM WITH NO
CLASSES, NO PROFESSORS, AND NO
CREDIT HOURS.
>> RATHER THAN MEASURING HOW
LONG SOMEONE SAT, THE OLD CREDIT
HOUR CONSTRUCT, WE ACTUALLY HAVE
A PROGRAM, THAT MEASURES WHAT
YOU LEARN, AND WE THROW TIME
SORT OF OUT THE WINDOW.
>> Sreenivasan: SO HOW IS THIS
DIFFERENT THAN ONLINE
UNIVERSITIES THAT HAVE EXISTED
FOR YEARS NOW?
>> ALMOST ALL OF ONLINE
EDUCATION TODAY IS STILL BASED
ON THE CREDIT HOUR AND THE
COURSE.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY COURSES, AND
WE DON'T HAVE ANY CREDIT HOURS,
BUT WE HAVE A HUNDRED AND TWENTY
COMPETENCIES, AND YOU CAN MASTER
THOSE AS FAST AS YOU LIKE, OR AS
SLOW, THE THING THAT WE DON'T
CARE VERY MUCH ABOUT IS TIME.
AND THAT IS SUCH A FUNDAMENTAL
REVERSAL OF THE BASIC STRUCTURE
OF HIGHER EDUCATION.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST YEAR,
PRESIDENT OBAMA CITED THE NEW
PROGRAM AS AN INNOVATIVE WAY TO
MAKE COLLEGE MORE AFFORDABLE.
>> SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE
UNIVERSITY GIVES CREDIT TO
STUDENTS BASED ON HOW WELL THEY
MASTER THE MATERIAL, NOT JUST ON
HOW MANY HOURS THEY SPENT IN THE
CLASSROOM, THE IDEA BEING, IF
YOU CAN LEARN THE MATERIAL
FASTER, AND FINISH FASTER, YOU
PAY LESS, AND YOU SAVE MONEY.
>> Sreenivasan: AN ASSOCIATES
DEGREE AT COLLEGE FOR AMERICA
COSTS $5,000, A BACHELOR'S
IN ITS FIRST YEAR, THE SCHOOL
HAD 600 STUDENTS SPREAD OUT OVER
39 STATES.
STUDENTS LIKE SUE SHIPKA, A
WIDOWER FROM BURLINGTON
MASSACHUSETTS WHO HAD TRIED TO
EARN A DEGREE ONCE BEFORE, WHILE
RAISING HER THREE CHILDREN.
>> I'M SITTING IN CLASS AND I'M
THINKING OF MY KIDS AT HOME WITH
A BABYSITTER, I'M NOT THERE, AND
EVERYTHING ELSE THAT I HAVE TO
DO, AND I COULD BE WORKING
OVERTIME TO PAY THE BILLS, OR,
YOU KNOW, THERE WERE SO MANY
OTHER THINGS.
SO MY MIND WAS PRE-OCCUPIED, I
WASN'T IN CLASS, SO IT WASN'T
REALLY HELPFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: A LICENSED NURSE
PRACTITIONER, SHIPKA HOPES AN
ASSOCIATES DEGREE WILL LEAD TO A
JOB IN HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT WITH
A HIGHER SALARY AND FEWER HOURS.
>> IT WILL FREE UP SOME TIME, SO
I CAN SPEND MORE TIME WITH THE
KIDS.
>> THIS MODEL SAYS LOOK, IF
YOU'VE BEEN WORKING FOR TWENTY
YEARS AND YOU LOOK AT THE MATH
COMPETENCIES AND YOU SAY I GOT
THESE COLD, WHY WOULD WE MAKE
YOU SIT THROUGH SIXTEEN WEEKS OF
CLASS TIME, GO AHEAD,
DEMONSTRATE THAT YOU ACTUALLY IN
FACT HAVE MASTERED THESE, AND
THEN MOVE ON."
>> Sreenivasan: BUT IF COLLEGE
FOR AMERICA HAS NO COURSES AND
NO PROFESSORS, HOW DO IT'S
STUDENTS QUALIFY FOR A DEGREE?
THAT'S WHERE CHIEF ACADEMIC
OFFICER CATHRAEL KAZIN COMES IN.
>> I THINK THAT FITS NICELY WITH
OUR COMPETENCIES ON QUALITY
MANAGEMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: KAZIN OVERSEES A
TEAM OF SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTS,
ACADEMICS, AND INDUSTRY LEADERS
WHO ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR DEGREE
CONTENT.
>> WHAT WE DID WAS TO TAKE A
MODEL DEGREE, AND THEN KIND OF
BREAK IT APART.
SO WE IDENTIFIED THE KEY
COMPETENCIES THAT A STUDENT
SHOULD DEVELOP IN THE COURSE OF
EARNING THAT DEGREE.
>> Sreenivasan: STUDENTS ARE
GIVEN A SERIES OF PROJECTS TO
COMPLETE ON THEIR OWN TIME.
THE PROJECTS ARE EVALUATED BY
EXPERTS, AN APPROACH CALLED
DIRECT ASSESSMENT.
>> THE PROJECTS ARE ORGANIZED
AROUND CERTAIN THEMES, EACH
PROJECT IS ASSOCIATED WITH A
CERTAIN NUMBER OF COMPETENCIES.
SO, FOR INSTANCE, YOU MIGHT HAVE
COMPETENCIES THAT INVOLVE
CRITICAL THINKING, COMMUNICATION
SKILLS, QUANTITATIVE REASONING,
YOU WOULD DEMONSTRATE THOSE BY
DOING A BUSINESS MEMO, FOR
INSTANCE, WITH A SPREADSHEET
THAT ATTACKS A PARTICULAR
BUSINESS PROBLEM.
YOU MIGHT CURATE A VIRTUAL
MUSEUM EXHIBIT, SO THAT YOU
WOULD BE SHOWING PEOPLE HOW YOU
LOOK AT ART, RIGHT.
SO THEY'RE ALL VERY, VERY
CAREFULLY CRAFTED.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT AWARDING
COMPETENCY-BASED CREDITS HAS
GENERATED SOME SKEPTICISM AMONG
FACULTY AT OTHER INSTITUTIONS.
>> THE PURPOSE OF A COLLEGE
EDUCATION IS ACTUALLY TO PRODUCE
INSIGHT, NOT COMPETENCY.
>> Sreenivasan: ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR JOHANN NEEM, FROM
WESTERN WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY,
SAYS COLLEGE CLASSROOMS FOSTER
MUCH MORE THAN COMPETENCY.
>> THE REALITY IS SEAT TIME IS A
BAD WA
HAPPENS IN A CLASSROOM.
IT'S ACTUALLY ABOUT ACTIVELY
ENGAGING WITH MATERIAL.
IT'S THINKING TIME, THAT'S WHEN
BRAINS ARE ENGAGED, THAT'S WHEN
MINDS ARE THINKING, THAT'S WHEN
PEOPLE ARE TALKING TO PEOPLE AND
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT,
ULTIMATELY.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR NOW, COLLEGE
FOR AMERICA TARGETS ADULTS LIKE
SUE SHIPKA.
WE'VE GOT A HUGE CRISIS IN
THIS COUNTRY IN PREPARING
THE
COLLEGE OF AMERICA IS REALLY
DESIGNED TO SERVE THOSE
WORKING ADULTS.
>> THE COLLEGE HAS PARTNER
>> Sreenivasan: THE COLLEGE HAS
PARTNERED WITH MORE THAN FIFTY
COMPANIES THAT SPONSOR EMPLOYEES
WHO ARE INTERESTED IN PURSUING A
DEGREE.
SUE SHIPKA'S EMPLOYER, PARTNERS
HEALTHCARE OF MASSACHUSETTS, IS
PAYING HALF OF HER $5,000
TUITION.
BUT LEBLANC SEES A MUCH BIGGER
ROLE FOR COMPETENCY BASED
EDUCATION.
HE CURRENTLY LEADS A GROUP OF
TWENTY COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
THAT DISCUSS COMPETENCY BASED
BEST PRACTICES.
THE GROUP WAS RECENTLY FUNDED BY
THE LUMINA FOUNDATION, WHICH
ALSO FUNDS THE NEWSHOUR.
>> ni THIS IS A FAIRLY
DISRUPTIVE IDEA.
DOES HIGHER EDUCATION NEED THIS
DISRUPTION?
>> I THINK COMPETENCY-BASED
EDUCATION LOOMS LARGE AS A
DISRUPTIVE FORCE IN THE HIGHER
EDUCATION, BECAUSE WHAT IT
ALLOWS YOU TO DO IS WHEN YOU
REVERSE THAT TIME IS FIXED,
LEARNING IS VARIABLE KERNEL, AND
YOU START TO UNBUNDLE AL
WHAT GOES INTO LEARNING PEOPLE.
YOU CAN START TO THINK ABOUT
VERY NEW BUSINESS MODELS,
DIFFERENT WAYS TO BRING LEARNING
TO PEOPLE, AND THAT'S VERY
POWERFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION HAS WEIGHED IN AND
APPROVED THE USE OF FEDERAL AID
FOR STUDENTS ATTENDING COLLEGE
OF AMERICAN.
THE DEPARTMENT IS CURRENTLY
EVALUATING APPLICATIONS FROM
SEVERAL MORE INSTITUTIONS.
>> Ifill: WE CONTINUE OUR
"RETHINKING COLLEGE" SERIES
TOMORROW WHEN HARI LOOKS AT THE
TRILLION DOLLAR BURDEN OF
STUDENT LOANS.
ONLINE, WE LOOK AT THE CHANGING
FACE OF THE TYPICAL COLLEGE
FRESHMAN.
NO LONGER JUST FRESH OUT OF HIGH
SCHOOL, THEY'RE OLDER AND
JUGGLING JOBS AND FAMILIES.
>> Ifill: A GROUP OF LAWYERS IS
CHARGING IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS
WITH VIOLATING THE DUE PROCESS
RIGHTS OF DETAINEES HELD AT A
NEW MEXICO DETENTION CENTER.
THEY FILED A LAWSUIT AGAINST THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FRIDAY,
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
MCCLEERY TALKED WITH ONE OF THE
ATTORNEYS OFFERING FREE LEGAL
SERVICES AT THE FACILITY BEFORE
THE SUIT WAS FILED.
IT'S PART OF OUR SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS WITH THOSE ON THE
FRONTLINES OF THE IMMIGRATION
CRISIS.
>> IN IS THE THIRD TIME IN
LESS THAN A MONTH THAT LAURA
LICHTER HAS DRIVEN NEARLY
550 MILES FROM HER HOME IN
DENVER TO ARTESIA IN
SOUTHEASTERN, NEW MEXICO.
SHE COMES AT HER OWN EXPENSE
AND A HOTEL STAY IN THIS OIL
TOWN ISN'T CHEAP, UPWARDS OF
$150 A NIGHT.
GAS AND MEALS ALL ADD UP.
PLUS THE 47-YEAR-OLD LAWYER
HAS LEFT BEHIND AN
IMMIGRATION PRACTICE IN
COLORADO.
WHERE AN HOUR OF HER TIME
CAN COST $300 OR MORE.
SHE IS THE IMMEDIATE PAST
PRESIDENT OF THE AMERICAN
IMMIGRATION LAWYERS
ASSOCIATION.
LICHTER SHOWS UP AT THE
FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
TRAINING CENTER AT 7 O
COLLECT A.M., READY TO MEET
WITH CLIENTS SHE BARELY
KNOWS AND WHOM SHE CHARGES.
THERE ARE WOMEN AND CHILDREN
WHO TRIED TO OWNER THE U.S.
ILLEGALLY, WERE CAPTURED AT
THE BORDER AND SENT HERE.
MOST ARE MAKING CLAIMS OF
ASYLUM.
WHEN IN ARTESIA LICHTER
WORKS A 15 HOUR DAY,
CULMINATING WITH AN EVENING
SESSION AT A LOCAL CHURCH
WITH A PRO BONO ATTORNEYS
SHARE STORIES.
>> WE CAUGHT UP WITH HER
DURING AN UNUSUAL MIDDAY
BREAK.
AND BEGAN BY TALKING ABOUT
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN AN
IMMIGRANT SAYS SHE'S AFRAID
TO BE SENT HOME.
>> WELL, IDEALLY THIS PERSON
IS TELLING THE GOVERNMENT AT
THE MOMENT THEY HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED THAT THEY ACTUALLY
HAVE A FEAR OF BEING SENT
BACK HOME.
AND IF THEY TELL THE
GOVERNMENT THAT THEY'RE
AFRAID TO GO BACK HOME,
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE
REFERRED FOR AN INTERVIEW ON
WHAT'S CALLED AN ASYLUM
CLAIM.
THE GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL THAT
REFEWS THIS CASE IS SUPPOSED
TO LOOK AT WHETHER OR NOT
THAT PERSON ACTUALLY HAS A
REASONABLE POSSIBILITY OF
BEING ABLE TO PROVE A CASE.
>> SO WHAT IS THAT
REASONABLE BASIS FOR ASYLUM?
>> ASYLUM APP BECOME ABLE TO
QUALIFY FOR ASYLUM MEANS THE
PERSON HAS TO PROVE TO THE
SATISFACTION OF THE
GOVERNMENT THAT THEY HAVE A
WELL-FOUNDED FEAR OF
PERSECUTION ON ACCOUNT OF
ONE OF FIVE BASES.
THEY HAVE TO SHOW A
CONNECTION BETWEEN THE HARM
THAT THEY'RE AFRAID OF, AND
THE REASON WHY SOMEONE IS
TRYING TO HARM THEM.
AND THAT CAN BE ANYTHING
FROM THEIR RELIGION, THEIR
RACE, NATIONALITY, POLITICS
OR WHAT WE'RE SEEING A LOT
OF HERE IS A PARTICULAR
SOCIAL GROUP.
AND A SOCIAL GROUP IS
DEFINED AS SOMETHING THAT IS
AN IMMUTABLE CHARACTERISTIC,
THE TYPE OF THING ABOUT
YOURSELF THAT YOU REALLY
CAN'T OR SHOULDN'T HAVE TO
CHANGE.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, YOUR AGAINER
MIGHT BE PART OF THE SOCIAL
GROUP.
YOUR EXPERIENCES.
BEING FORCED INTO
RECRUITMENT BY A GANG.
HAVING A GANG MEMBER TELL
YOU AS A 14-YEAR-OLD GIRL
THAT NOW YOU'RE GOING TO BE
THE GIRLFRIEND OF THIS
INDIVIDUAL WHO IS IN THE
GANG.
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE SAYING
THAT A LOT OF THESE WOMEN
AND CHILDREN ARE ECONOMIC
MIGRANTS.
OR THEY'VE COME HERE BECAUSE
THEY THINK THAT THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO BE SENT HOME.
>> I FIND THIS LUDICRIS,
SCHRUTLY LUDICROUS THERE IS
A BIAS AGAINST THESE WOMEN
THAT THE PEOPLE ENTERING ON
THE SOUTHERN BOARDER IN THIS
HUMANITARIAN CRIES RIS ALL
ECONOMIC MY GRANTS.
THAT THEY'RE HERE BECAUSE
THEY WANT TO WORK, NOT
BECAUSE THEY ARE RUNNING
AWAY FROM SOMETHING.
AND NOTHING COULD BE FARTHER
FROM THE TRUTH.
IT IS SO BIZARRE TO SEE A
GOVERNMENT ATTORNEY ARGUING
THAT THE YOUNG MOTHER NEXT
TO YOU AND HERSELF
EN-YEAR-OLD AND 3 YEAR OLD
ARE A NATIONAL SECURITY
THREAT.
BECAUSE SOMEHOW THE
GOVERNMENT THINKS THAT IF
ANY ONE OF THESE WOMEN
ESCAPE FROM THIS INSTITUTION,
BY BEING ABLE TO PAY A
REASONABLE BOND, THAT
SOMEHOW THAT MEANS THAT MORE
PEOPLE WILL COME.
>> IS THERE SOMETHING
DIFFERENT HAPPENING HERE IN
TERMS OF THE SPEED OF THE
PROCESS.
>> IF YOU ARE'S AN
IMMIGRATION LAWYER THIS IS
KIND OF LIKE WATCHING
HURRICANE KATRINA HAPPEN.
I HAVE NEVER SEEN A PROCESS
WHERE THE GOVERNMENT WAS SO
HELD-BENT ON MOVING PEOPLE
THROUGH A PROCESS, JUST
COMPLETELY PRO FORMA LIKE A
MATTER OF CHECKING BOXES
WITH THE ASSUMPTION THAT
NOBODY HERE HAS A REAL CASE.
AND THAT WE JUST NEED TO RUN
THEM THROUGH.
IT IS, I RUN OUT OF WORDS TO
DESCRIBE HOW FRUSTRATING,
MADDENING, KAFKA ESQ, UNFAIR,
IRRATIONAL SOME OF THE
PROCEDURES HAVE BEEN THAT
WE'VE SEEN.
WE HAVE SEEN CASES THAT HAVE
BEEN PUSHED THROUGH THIS
PROCESS SO FAST, THAT THERE
LITERALLY COULD NOT HAVE
BEEN ANY MEANINGFUL
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PERSON
TO BE HEARD.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYSOOK,
WE'REOT RIGHTS,
THESE WOMEN HAVE ACCESS TO
COUNSEL-- COUNSEL, WHAT'S
YOUR VIEW ON THATNESS.
>> WHEN THESE WOMEN FIRST GO
IN FRONT OF AN ASYLUM
OFFICER, THE GOVERNMENT WILL
HAND THEM A SHEET OF PAPER
THAT TELLS THEM HOW TO FIND
FREE LEGAL SERVICES.
WE'RE IN ARTESIA NEW MEXICO
B THREE AND A HALF HOURS
FROM EL PASO AND ABOUT THE
SAME DISTANCE FROM
ALBUQUERQUE.
THERE ARE NO LEGAL SERVICES
PROVIDERS IN THIS ENTIRE
STATE THAT ARE FUNDED TO DO
REPRESENTATION FOR PEOPLE
WHO ARE IN DETENTION.
THE LEGAL SERVICES LIST THAT
THE GOVERNMENT IS PROVIDING
TO THESE INDIVIDUALS HAS THE
NAMES OF THREE ORGANIZATIONS
OUT OF EL PASO, TEXAS, NONE
OF WHICH SET UP OR FUNDED TO
ACTUALLY DO DIRECT
REPRESENTATION.
>> SO WHAT IS IT THAT YOU'VE
DONE.
THE FIRST THING WE RECOGNIZE
IS THAT PEOPLE DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND THEIR RIGHTS.
THEY DIDN'T UNDERSTAND, FOR
EXAMPLE, THAT THEY COULD ASK
FOR TIME TO TRY TO FIND AN
ATTORNEY.
THEY WERE UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THAT IF THEY
TRIED TO DELAY THEIR CASE,
THAT THE CASE WOULD JUST
KIND OF GO ON WITHOUT THEM.
THEY WERE TOLD THAT THEY
WOULD JUST GET DEPORTED IF
THEY DIDN'T SHOW UP TO A
HEARING.
THERE WAS A LOT OF
MISINFORMATION.
>> THIS IS PROBABLY THE ONE
THING I AM MOST PROUD OF IN
MY LEGAL CAREER.
THIS WAS A NEAT LITTLE VERY
SUBVERSIVE TOOL.
AND THESE DREAM SHEETS
BASICALLY SAY KNOW YOUR
RIGHTS.
IMMIGRATION CASES ARE
COMPLEX.
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO A
LAWYER.
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO ASK FOR
TIME TO TALK TO A LAWYER.
NO ONE CAN DEPORT YOU
WITHOUT YOU HAVING AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT YOUR
CASE.
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, THIS
IS MY LITTLE PERSONAL
HAMMER.
WE GAVE THEM A TOOL, WE GAVE
THEM SOMETHING THAT THEY
COULD USE TO HAVE A VOICE.
BECAUSE ON THE REVERSE SIDE
OF THIS FORM IT SAYS, I
WOULD LIKE TO CONTINUE MY
CASE SO I MAY SEEK LEGAL
HELP.
AND IT DOESN'T SOUND REALLY
DRAMATIC AND YOU MIGHT
WONDER WHY I'M GETTING ALL
CHOKED UP ABOUT THIS.
BUT THIS CHANGED EVERYTHING.
WHEN WE PRESENTED THESE,
THEY FLEW AROUND THE
DETENTION CENTER.
AND EVER SINCE WE DID THAT,
PEOPLE REALIZED THAT THERE
WERE LAWYERS HERE, AND THEY
CARED ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING
ON.
AND THEY WERE GOING TO HELP
THESE WOMEN.
>> FINAL QUESTION, STRESSFUL,
LONG HOURS, EXPENSIVE.
WHY DO YOU DO IT?
>> I HAVE NEVER FELT MORE
PRESSURED IN MY LIFE THAT ON
MY WORK, WHAT I AM DOING,
PEOPLE'S LIVES ARE
DEPENDING.
BUT I HAVE ALSO NEVER FELT
MORE ENERGIZED, AND MORE
REWARDED BY WHAT I HAVE EVER
BEEN DOING.
THIS IS THE HIGHEST AND
BEST USE I HAVE EVER SEEN
FOR MY LITTLE PIECE OF PAPER
LAW LICENCE.
AND I WILL TELL YOU THAT
ALMOST TO A SINGLE PERSON,
EVERY SINGLE PERSON THAT WE
HAVE HAD THAT HAS COME DOWN
AND VOLUNTEERED, AND THESE
ARE LAWYERS WHO HAVE DROPPED
EVERYTHING, THEY'RE ON THEIR
OWN DIME, THEY HAVE
ABANDONED THEIR PRACTICE.
YOU KNOW, EVERYTHING, TO
COME DOWN HERE AND DO THIS.
ALMOST EVERY SINGLE PERSON
THAT HAS BEEN DOWN HERE HAS
SAID I'M COMING BACK.
I'M COMING BACK.
>> Ifill: LAURA LICHTER PLANS TO
RETURN TO ARTESIA IN SEPTEMBER.
FOR THE RECORD, WE HAVE ASKED
FOR AN INTERVIEW WITH AN
OFFICIAL IN THE IMMIGRATION AND
CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT SERVICE.
ONLINE, YOU CAN SEE MORE OF THE
INTERVIEW WITH LICHTER, WHERE
SHE DESCRIBES CONDITIONS INSIDE
THE DETENTION CENTER.
PLUS, KATHLEEN'S REPORTER'S
NOTEBOOK ABOUT ANOTHER DISPUTE
THERE, OVER CRAYONS FOR
CHILDREN.
WE'LL CONTINUE OUR SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS ON THIS ISSUE
TOMORROW, WHEN WE TALK WITH AN
ARIZONA RANCHER/VETERINARIAN WHO
WORKS ALL ALONG THE BORDER.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE FUNERAL OF MICHAEL BROWN
ECHOED WITH CALLS FOR JUSTICE,
IN A SERVICE ATTENDED BY
THE BLACK TEENAGER WAS SHOT AND
KILLED AUGUST 9 BY A WHITE
POLICEMAN.
AND AT LEAST 58 PEOPLE DIED IN A
WAVE OF ATTACKS ACROSS IRAQ.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, AS STUDENTS HEAD BACK TO
SCHOOL THIS WEEK, THE AMERICAN
ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS HAS A
RECOMMENDATION FOR MIDDLE SCHOOL
AND HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPALS: "LET
THEM SLEEP."
RESEARCH SHOWS THAT ADOLESCENTS
NEED 8.5 TO 9.5 HOURS OF SLEEP.
BUT BUSY SCHEDULES AND CHANGES
IN A TEEN'S SLEEP CYCLE OFTEN
DON'T ALLOW FOR THEM TO GET TO
BED AT A REASONABLE HOUR.
SO THE DOCTORS RECOMMEND
DELAYING THE START OF THE SCHOOL
DAY.
YOU CAN READ MORE ABOUT THEIR
ADVICE, ON THE RUNDOWN.ALL THATB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL HAVE REPORT
FROM MARGARET WARNER IN IRAQ.
I'M GWEN IFILL, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.